# binary-search-tree
Binary Search Tree

### Instructions:
1. Run the project with a test file of numbers (separated by spaces).
2. These numbers will be read from the file and into the binary search tree.

### Overview:
I have a BinaryTree class that has a pointer to the root and nodeCount. There are private functions for inserting, removing, deleting, destroying subtrees, height, and displaying the tree (in order, pre order, and post order).  I also have public functions that call the private functions to perform the task. For insertion it checks if the tree is empty and if it is, then create a new node and that’s the root. If the value is already in the tree then a message is printed. If the value to be inserted is less than the current node value, then go left and call the insert function recursively; if the value to be inserted is greater than the current node value, then go right and call the insert function recursively. Then increment the node count. For display in order, go left, visit, and right. For display pre order go visit, left, right. For display post order do left, right, visit. The make deletion function does the work of actually deleting the node, the remove function looks for the value to delete. If it’s empty then a statement is printed saying that there are no values to remove. If the value is less than the current node then go left and call the function recursively, if the value is greater than the current node then go right and call the function recursively. If it’s none of the above options then you’ve found the item and call make deletion to actually delete the item. Destroy subtree deletes the subtrees and sets the nodeCount equal to zero.  The find function starts at the root. If the current item is equal the value you’re looking for then return true. If not, then do a comparison to see if the value is less than or greater than the current node value. If it’s less than go left, if it’s greater than then go right. If the value is not found then false is returned for the find function. Delete all deletes the whole tree. The height function returns the height of the tree. If the tree is empty, then the height is -1 since it’s null. Measure the height of the left and right subtrees by calling the function recursively. Find the maximum between the left and right heights and add one for the height of the tree. The program reads the command to do like loading, adding, removing, printing (in order, pre order, post order) and if adding or removing a value it also reads that value and creates an object to be inserted or removed to the binary tree.
